Odd!
Odd?
Rose?
What are you doing?
I'm the head of a funeral parlor
with one funeral scheduled,
Dad's,
which I'm paying for.
For four generations before me,
this funeral parlor has survived, but now…
It's all falling apart.
It can't be that bad.
Can it?
Phone's ringing.
Can you answer it?
Hallangen Funeral Parlor, Odd speaking.
Yes, it's me.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Do you have the name?
Something to write with?
Just a second. I have to find a pen.
Left.
Yes. No, I'm still here.
Just a second.
Put it there.
Yeah, let's see…
When did you say she was born?
…six-thirty, and the rest?
3-7-4-7-3.
That's good. Thank you.
No, thank you. I'll be there soon. Yes.
Goodbye.
Yes!
-What?
-Mrs. Gundersen is dead!
-Is that true?
-Yes!
No.
Yes!
She's lived with us
for a really long time.
Yeah.
-Yeah.
-But she doesn't any longer.
I'm sorry,
but this is sort of our meal ticket.
I have to get going.
Hey, Rose, can you cover Dad up?
A NETFLIX SERIES
"Did Arvid have any enemies in town?"
"Could anyone have wanted
to murder Ar…" No, wait.
to end Arvid's life," I think.
Practicing what you're going to say
to Odd and Live?
Remember that your priority
is to reassure them.
Of course.
Tell them that
there's probably nothing to worry about.
We're investigating it,
but let's not over-dramatize.
No, but at the same time,
it's a small town where no one ever dies,
is what I'm thinking.
Yeah, but you know what I mean.
HALLANGEN FUNERAL PARLOR
Bonjour, Mathieu!
Hi, Odd.
-Had a long night, did you?
-You could say that.
-Second door on the right.
-Yeah.
The sons arrived an hour ago.
Could you help me with one small thing?
-Sure.
-Thanks.
Let's lift her onto the stretcher,
and I'll handle the rest.
When we have… When the family
has picked the casket and all that.
Let's see.
Stand down there.
Now we'll raise the bed. There we go.
We'll let gravity do some of the work.
Like Dad used to say,
"It's stupid to give yourself a hernia
because of a body."
Hello, Mrs. Gundersen.
"Mrs. Margit Constance Gundersen."
"Born June 21, 1930." Yeah, that's right.
Let's do this.
It was not a pleasant exit from life
for Margit.
She wasn't ready to go.
She clearly fought for her life.
Who knows who decides
when it's our turn to die?
But one thing is certain. It's not fair.
I can't find anything on the surveillance
videos from the gas station.
But what did you expect?
That Arvid and the killer
had a dramatic fight
that was caught by the camera
near the gas pumps?
-No…
-And then they went to the crematorium?
No.
Did you do the paperwork
for the one who died at Soltun?
-Yes, Margit Gundersen.
-Great.
Then… we can go have a bun at the bakery.
Am I the only one
working on two suspicious deaths here?
You mean the old lady at Soltun?
No, Live Hallangen. Jesus!
She woke up again.
-Yeah, after she died.
-Yes, but she woke up again.
And, Arvid, we have no leads.
You said so yourself.
I'm going to do everything in my power
to solve this case.
I just can't… I can't imagine
how painful it must be for Live…
Poor thing.
Not knowing how her father died.
And for Odd.
For both of them.
I had a colleague when I worked
as an officer in Kongsvinger.
A very dedicated policeman,
kind of like you.
Except that he could take home
any woman he wanted.
Married, single…
He could have been a model.
But he chose
to be a policeman in Kongsvinger.
Yeah, what's your point?
He never went home.
Not to his own house or anyone else's.
He just sat in his office
day in and day out, fighting crime.
-He was really good.
-Yeah?
Where is he now?
He's dead now.
Was he killed?
Heart attack.
On the toilet.
Yeah, but what's the moral of the story?
I have a really nice niece.
Lykke. You know her. She's a nice girl.
Some might say she's mousy,
that she's about as much fun
as decaffeinated coffee,
that she has the charisma of a frying pan,
but she's damn nice.
Perhaps the last single lady in Skarnes.
That's… That's 100% wrong.
-That's… Live is also still single.
-Yeah.
That's a project
you may want to give up on.
Take Lykke out
to the Chinese place, Reinert.
The Chinese place, right.
This here… is what I'm going
to spend time on.
How many people in Skarnes
have the strength
to crush seven ribs in this way?
What are you going to do about it?
Go through the gym's membership lists?
Yeah, maybe I'll start there,
and keep working from there,
and do some police work.
Heart attack.
-Crushed ribs.
-On the toilet.
Yeah, in Skarnes.
On the toilet!
One, two, three.
There.
That's good.
Oh my! Mrs. Gundersen!
Yeah, let's see.
Let's see.
There.
Let's see, just need to lower the bed.
You talked to the Gundersen boys?
-I gave them some coffee.
-Good.
Well, we're out of here.
One, two… There.
-Oh dear.
-Sorry.
-Hi, Live.
-Hi.
Sorry, we didn't know there was…
-Odd said we could come in.
-Yeah.
I was just going to…
My condolences.
Thank you so much.
And thank you ever so much, Live, for…
We haven't been here
as much as we should have.
But we knew Mom was fine
as long as you were here.
Every time we spoke with her on the phone,
she told us what Live had said and…
Or what Live had done.
-She loved you very, very much.
-Very, very much.
Yeah, she was
an amazing woman, so…
I'm very sorry about this.
In many ways,
you kept her alive towards the end.
Yeah. Well, I have to… get going.
Yeah.
Thank you, anyway.
I don't need it.
Stone: blue gneiss.
Text: Arvid Hallangen.
Font: Times New Roman, italics.
Color: white.
Church: Udnes, of course.
Programs: 75. Flowers…
Ornament, song… He's decided everything.
What are you talking about?
When someone dies,
you're supposed to create a case file.
He did it himself long ago,
and filled in everything
we're supposed to spend 4-5 hours on…
Apart from the casket, maybe.
Then maybe he should get
the expensive mahogany casket
you never sold?
Yeah. No, he has written,
"Use a model Odd has scratched up
or dented and we can't get a refund for."
Yeah.
And I know where that one is, so…
Fine.
Except for the eulogy.
Which I was wondering if you would do.
-No.
-No?
I understand that you don't want to.
Neither do I, but…
I just thought that, since it's
my first funeral as head of the parlor,
it's kind of important to…
Isn't it important
that I look steady and strong and…
This isn't the '50s, Odd.
If you start crying at your father's
funeral, no one will raise an eyebrow.
Okay, I'll… I'll do it.
Thank you.
What's going on with your eye?
-Nothing?
-Yeah.
There's a green spot on it.
Huh?
How can you stuff your face with a bun
when there's a killer loose in Skarnes?
Arvid was loved.
Yeah.
So was Kennedy.
-And Gandhi and…
-I haven't said we won't investigate it.
-No, but…
-Reinert.
Has anyone told you about the strange
deaths we had in the early '90s?
-You think… You think they're connected?
-No…
I was around your age.
Young and eager.
And totally convinced that there was
a killer on the loose in Skarnes.
And that I was the only one
who could catch him.
Or her.
Sometimes, a lot of people
happen to die around the same time.
I was so obsessed
with solving this case that I…
I became the lady who cried wolf.
It became quite uncomfortable.
I felt like I had something to prove.
So I… I was a little rough
with the suspect.
I couldn't have known that
she struggled with her own demons,
and that my investigation
would be the straw that made her…
Was it Live's mother?
So you understand
why I don't want to go into that house
and cry "murder" before I have to.
No, of course.
At the same time,
I think it's very important
that we show Live
that we're doing all we can
to figure this out.
For what happened to her
and what happened to Arvid.
Sure, Reinert.
Everyone in Skarnes, including Live,
knows what you would do for her.
DEAR DAD
Hi, Live.
Hi.
How are you feeling?
Are you sleeping at night?
Yeah.
Could you come by this afternoon
for some more tests?
I'm fine.
Okay.
FUNERALS
Burger. Yes.
Yeah, how's it going at work?
No, that's confidential.
Yeah, because Aunt Judith said
that work is your life.
Yeah, that's right.
So we won't have
anything to talk about on…
on dates?
Right.
Should we just go home and fuck, then?
"On a day
like this."
Then…
"Dear Dad, as…
we're standing here
today…"
"You have buried over 1,000 people
throughout your career, many of whom…"
Oh my…
Hey! What the fuck?
-It made so much noise.
-Noise?
-Yeah.
-From the lawnmower?
Yes.
Are you kidding? Have you lost your mind?
I'm not the one who bought a robot
to cut 22 square feet of grass.
No, because you can't even
afford garden shears.
What did Aunt Judith say
to make you agree to go on this date?
That…
"You just have to meet my…
my nymphomaniac niece."
God damn it!
It's Live.
Live!
Reinert?
What the fuck is wrong with you?
Hi, it's Live. Leave a message.
Hi, Live. It's Reinert.
I just wanted to
talk.
So if…
If you can call me back,
that would be great, just for a talk.
Goodbye.
What are you doing?
Well?
The idea is… I know it's--
Red yarn?
Since when does the police use red yarn?
-Live--
-Did you take Marianne's yarn?
-Reinert, take it down.
-Yeah, I--
Take it down, Reinert,
and go home for the weekend.
And we'll talk on Monday.
-Judith, I think you'll want to hear--
-That's an order. Bye!
Take it all down.
Arvid Hallangen shows clear signs
that his ribs were broken.
That doesn't happen
if he falls backwards down the stairs.
Someone must have pushed him.
He lost his balance…
I have to kill to keep my family safe.
To defend them from myself.
But, every time I kill,
I put them in danger.
I'm worried about Live.
What if she inherited this from me?
I need blood.
I can't take it.
Be quiet.
I need blood.
Live?
Hello? Are you there?
Come in.
-Hi
-Hi.
Are you okay?
Sure.
You have to get ready.
For what?
The funeral?
Yeah, but that's not until Thursday.
Today is Thursday.
It's pretty normal to lose
track of time when grieving.
It'll pass.
We just have to
get over the worst hurdle,
and everything will be fine.
Yeah, we can do that.
-I'll see you later.
-Yeah, just go on ahead. I'll be there.
She… I don't know,
she'll probably be there.
Don't you have enough to worry about, Odd?
What's going on with that knot?
I know how to tie a tie.
I've done it myself since kindergarten.
Sure, it just looks a bit crooked.
-Is it too tight?
-No.
No one is expecting you
to stand at the door
and arrange your own dad's funeral, honey.
Yes, they are actually.
If I can't handle my own father's funeral,
no one will bring their parents to me or
anyone.
You look really nice anyway.
Very professional.
I'll go as far as to say,
you're the handsomest funeral director
in the entire Hallangen family.
For the time being, I'm the only
funeral director in the family.
I mean, ever.
Thanks for trying.
-I have to go to the church.
-Yeah.
I'll see you there.
Yeah.
"Dearly loved, sorely missed"?
"Live, Rose…
and Dodd"?
"Dodd"?
Should I ask them to print another one?
It's too late!
But, Odd…
Don't you mean "Dodd"?
Fucking hell,
can't those morons at Skarnes Flowers
learn to double-check their spelling?
Fucking hell!
Hi there.
Hi.
Are you ready?
Yes.
My condolences.
Yeah, hi. Thanks.
I wish there was something I could do.
You can give me
more time to pay off Dad's loan.
Hi.
My condolences.
-We'll talk later?
-Yeah.
-I need to talk to you about something.
-Reinert.
-I think I may have figured out that…
-After the funeral.
-Yeah, but--
-Hush!
-Judith, please--
-Hush.
We are gathered here today
to say goodbye to Arvid Hallangen
and surrender him into God's hands.
LIVE, ROSE, AND DODD
And now, Arvid's daughter, Live,
would like to say a few words.
Live.
I…
"Dad…"
"Dear Dad…"
"You were never a very sentimental man."
-"I remember when we were little…"
-I need blood.
Need blood.
I can't take it.
I need blood.
-"I remember when…"
-I need blood.
I just have to…
Live, wait…
Live! Wait!
Wait!
"I remember being quite small
and asking why you did this job."
"I told you I could never do it."
"I couldn't do it…"
"I couldn't do it
because of all those left behind."
"Those left behind with all that grief."
Hey…
I thought the ceremony was nice.
Dodd.
Have you heard from Live?
No.
INCOMING CALL - REINERT
13 MISSED CALLS - REINERT
5 MISSED CALLS - ODD
Hi, Live. It's Reinert.
Can you call me back?
Hi, it's Reinert.
Where are you? I'm trying to reach you.
Live, what's going on?
Live, please.
What's going on with you?
I'm worried about you. Let me…
I want to help you, okay?
You ran from the church so fast.
What happened? Did you talk to her?
I couldn't catch up with her. It was…
No, running isn't your strong suit.
That stamina of yours.
Right, my stamina. Join me next time
and you won't be coming home.
-You don't think I will?
-No.
You can keep the lactic acid
and the taste of blood.
-My dinner's ready now.
-Okay.
-See you tomorrow.
-Fish au gratin.
Okay, bye.
I've been trying to reach you for a while.
I think I'm just tired.
Hey…
Subtitle translation by: